README.md, before:

# electron-shadcn

Electron in all its glory. Everything you will need to develop your beautiful desktop application.

![Demo GIF](https://github.com/LuanRoger/electron-shadcn/blob/main/images/demo.gif)

## Libs and tools

To develop a Electron app, you probably will need some UI, test, formatter, style or other kind of library or framework, so let me install and configure some of them to you.

### Core 🏍️

- [Electron 35](https://www.electronjs.org)
- [Vite 6](https://vitejs.dev)
- [SWC](https://swc.rs)

### DX 🛠️

- [TypeScript 5.8](https://www.typescriptlang.org)
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io)
- [ESLint 9](https://eslint.org)
- [Zod](https://zod.dev)
- [React Query (TanStack)](https://react-query.tanstack.com)

### UI 🎨

- [React 19](https://reactjs.org)
- [Tailwind 4](https://tailwindcss.com)
- [Shadcn UI](https://ui.shadcn.com)
- [Geist](https://vercel.com/font) as default font
- [i18next](https://www.i18next.com)
- [TanStack Router](https://tanstack.com/router)
- [Lucide](https://lucide.dev)

### Test 🧪

- [Vitest](https://vitest.dev)
- [Playwright](https://playwright.dev)
- [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro)

### Packing and distribution 📦

- [Electron Forge](https://www.electronforge.io)

### CI/CD 🚀

- Pre-configured [GitHub Actions workflow](https://github.com/LuanRoger/electron-shadcn/blob/main/.github/workflows/playwright.yml), for test with Playwright

### Project preferences 🎯

- Use Context isolation
- [React Compiler](https://react.dev/learn/react-compiler) is enabled by default.
- `titleBarStyle`: hidden (Using custom title bar)
- Geist as default font
- Some default styles was applied, check the [`styles`](https://github.com/LuanRoger/electron-shadcn/tree/main/src/styles) directory
- React DevTools are installed by default

> If you don't know some of these libraries or tools, I recommend you to check their documentation to understand how they work and how to use them.

> [!WARNING]
> Prefer to use the [`canary` release of `shadcn/ui`](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/tailwind-v4) to avoid compatibility issues with React 19 and Tailwind v4.

```bash
npx shadcn@canary add button
```

## Directory structure

```plaintext
.
└── ./src/
    ├── ./src/assets/
    │   └── ./src/assets/fonts/
    ├── ./src/components/
    │   ├── ./src/components/template
    │   └── ./src/components/ui/
    ├── ./src/helpers/
    │   └── ./src/helpers/ipc/
    ├── ./src/layout/
    ├── ./src/lib/
    ├── ./src/pages/
    ├── ./src/style/
    └── ./src/tests/
```

- `src/`: Main directory
  - `assets/`: Store assets like images, fonts, etc.
  - `components/`: Store UI components
    - `template/`: Store the all not important components used by the template. It doesn't include the `WindowRegion` or the theme toggler, if you want to start an empty project, you can safely delete this directory.
    - `ui/`: Store Shadcn UI components (this is the default direcotry used by Shadcn UI)
  - `helpers/`: Store IPC related functions to be called in the renderer process
    - `ipc/`: Directory to store IPC context and listener functions
      - Some implementations are already done, like `theme` and `window` for the custom title bar
  - `layout/`: Directory to store layout components
  - `lib/`: Store libraries and other utilities
  - `pages/`: Store app's pages
  - `style/`: Store global styles
  - `tests/`: Store tests (from Vitest and Playwright)

## NPM script

To run any of those scripts:

```bash
npm run <script>
```

- `start`: Start the app in development mode
- `package`: Package your application into a platform-specific executable bundle and put the result in a folder.
- `make`: Generate platform-specific distributables (e.g. .exe, .dmg, etc) of your application for distribution.
- `publish`: Electron Forge's way of taking the artifacts generated by the `make` command and sending them to a service somewhere for you to distribute or use as updates.
- `lint`: Run ESLint to lint the code
- `format`: Run Prettier to check the code (it doesn't change the code)
- `format:write`: Run Prettier to format the code
- `test`: Run the default unit-test script (Vitest)
- `test:watch`: Run the default unit-test script in watch mode (Vitest)
- `test:unit`: Run the Vitest tests
- `test:e2e`: Run the Playwright tests
- `test:all`: Run all tests (Vitest and Playwright)

> The test scripts involving Playwright require the app be builded before running the tests. So, before run the tests, run the `package`, `make` or `publish` script.

## How to use

1. Clone this repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/LuanRoger/electron-shadcn.git
```

Or use it as a template on GitHub

2. Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

3. Run the app

```bash
npm run start
```

## Used by

- [yaste](https://github.com/LuanRoger/yaste) - yaste (Yet another super ₛᵢₘₚₗₑ text editor) is a text editor, that can be used as an alternative to the native text editor of your SO, maybe.
- [eletric-drizzle](https://github.com/LuanRoger/electric-drizzle) - shadcn-ui and Drizzle ORM with Electron.
- [Wordle Game](https://github.com/masonyekta/wordle-game) - A Wordle game which features interactive gameplay, cross-platform compatibility, and integration with a custom Wordle API for word validation and letter correctness.
- [Mehr 🌟](https://github.com/xmannii/MehrLocalChat) - A modern, elegant local AI chatbot application using Electron, React, shadcn/ui, and Ollama.

> Does you've used this template in your project? Add it here and open a PR.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/LuanRoger/electron-shadcn/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Refactor project structure and update application name to "Seru". Added features for spreadsheet manipulation including filtering and reordering tools. Introduced new components for file uploading and data display. Updated localization and routing to reflect new functionality.

README.md, after:

# Seru - Simple Spreadsheet Editor

A simple and elegant desktop application for basic spreadsheet manipulation, built with Electron, React, and TypeScript.

![Demo GIF](https://github.com/LuanRoger/electron-shadcn/blob/main/images/demo.gif)

## Features

- **Filter Tool**: Filter a spreadsheet by removing rows that match entries in a second "no-contact" list.
- **Reorder Tool**: Easily change the column order of your spreadsheet.
- **Modern UI**: Built with Shadcn UI and Tailwind CSS.
- **Cross-Platform**: Works on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

## Libs and tools

To develop a Electron app, you probably will need some UI, test, formatter, style or other kind of library or framework, so let me install and configure some of them to you.

### Core 🏍️

- [Electron 35](https://www.electronjs.org)
- [Vite 6](https://vitejs.dev)
- [SWC](https://swc.rs)

### DX 🛠️

- [TypeScript 5.8](https://www.typescriptlang.org)
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io)
- [ESLint 9](https://eslint.org)
- [Zod](https://zod.dev)
- [React Query (TanStack)](https://react-query.tanstack.com)

### UI 🎨

- [React 19](https://reactjs.org)
- [Tailwind 4](https://tailwindcss.com)
- [Shadcn UI](https://ui.shadcn.com)
- [Geist](https://vercel.com/font) as default font
- [i18next](https://www.i18next.com)
- [TanStack Router](https://tanstack.com/router)
- [Lucide](https://lucide.dev)

### Test 🧪

- [Vitest](https://vitest.dev)
- [Playwright](https://playwright.dev)
- [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro)

### Packing and distribution 📦

- [Electron Forge](https://www.electronforge.io)

### CI/CD 🚀

- Pre-configured [GitHub Actions workflow](https://github.com/LuanRoger/electron-shadcn/blob/main/.github/workflows/playwright.yml), for test with Playwright

### Project preferences 🎯

- Use Context isolation
- [React Compiler](https://react.dev/learn/react-compiler) is enabled by default.
- `titleBarStyle`: hidden (Using custom title bar)
- Geist as default font
- Some default styles was applied, check the [`styles`](https://github.com/LuanRoger/electron-shadcn/tree/main/src/styles) directory
- React DevTools are installed by default

> If you don't know some of these libraries or tools, I recommend you to check their documentation to understand how they work and how to use them.

> [!WARNING]
> Prefer to use the [`canary` release of `shadcn/ui`](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/tailwind-v4) to avoid compatibility issues with React 19 and Tailwind v4.

```bash
npx shadcn@canary add button
```

## Directory structure

```plaintext
.
└── ./src/
    ├── ./src/assets/
    │   └── ./src/assets/fonts/
    ├── ./src/components/
    │   ├── ./src/components/template
    │   └── ./src/components/ui/
    ├── ./src/helpers/
    │   └── ./src/helpers/ipc/
    ├── ./src/layout/
    ├── ./src/lib/
    ├── ./src/pages/
    ├── ./src/style/
    └── ./src/tests/
```

- `src/`: Main directory
  - `assets/`: Store assets like images, fonts, etc.
  - `components/`: Store UI components
    - `template/`: Store the all not important components used by the template. It doesn't include the `WindowRegion` or the theme toggler, if you want to start an empty project, you can safely delete this directory.
    - `ui/`: Store Shadcn UI components (this is the default direcotry used by Shadcn UI)
  - `helpers/`: Store IPC related functions to be called in the renderer process
    - `ipc/`: Directory to store IPC context and listener functions
      - Some implementations are already done, like `theme` and `window` for the custom title bar
  - `layout/`: Directory to store layout components
  - `lib/`: Store libraries and other utilities
  - `pages/`: Store app's pages
  - `style/`: Store global styles
  - `tests/`: Store tests (from Vitest and Playwright)

## NPM script

To run any of those scripts:

```bash
npm run <script>
```

- `start`: Start the app in development mode
- `package`: Package your application into a platform-specific executable bundle and put the result in a folder.
- `make`: Generate platform-specific distributables (e.g. .exe, .dmg, etc) of your application for distribution.
- `publish`: Electron Forge's way of taking the artifacts generated by the `make` command and sending them to a service somewhere for you to distribute or use as updates.
- `lint`: Run ESLint to lint the code
- `format`: Run Prettier to check the code (it doesn't change the code)
- `format:write`: Run Prettier to format the code
- `test`: Run the default unit-test script (Vitest)
- `test:watch`: Run the default unit-test script in watch mode (Vitest)
- `test:unit`: Run the Vitest tests
- `test:e2e`: Run the Playwright tests
- `test:all`: Run all tests (Vitest and Playwright)

> The test scripts involving Playwright require the app be builded before running the tests. So, before run the tests, run the `package`, `make` or `publish` script.

## How to use

1. Clone this repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/LuanRoger/electron-shadcn.git
```

Or use it as a template on GitHub

2. Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

3. Run the app

```bash
npm run start
```

## Used by

- [yaste](https://github.com/LuanRoger/yaste) - yaste (Yet another super ₛᵢₘₚₗₑ text editor) is a text editor, that can be used as an alternative to the native text editor of your SO, maybe.
- [eletric-drizzle](https://github.com/LuanRoger/electric-drizzle) - shadcn-ui and Drizzle ORM with Electron.
- [Wordle Game](https://github.com/masonyekta/wordle-game) - A Wordle game which features interactive gameplay, cross-platform compatibility, and integration with a custom Wordle API for word validation and letter correctness.
- [Mehr 🌟](https://github.com/xmannii/MehrLocalChat) - A modern, elegant local AI chatbot application using Electron, React, shadcn/ui, and Ollama.

> Does you've used this template in your project? Add it here and open a PR.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/LuanRoger/electron-shadcn/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details.
